#Epson Moverio BT-200 Setup
ARToolKit offers support for the Epson Moverio BT-200 device. The BT-200 is an [optical-see-through][config_optical_see-through] stereo augmented reality headset with a single camera mounted on the right-hand side of the device that runs on [Android][android_about]. The stated horizontal field of view is 20 degrees.

## Setting up
The easiest means of getting pre-built apps onto the Moverio is using the `adb` tool included with the Android SDK. Some configuration may be necessary to get ADB to recognise the BT-200.

On OS X/Linux: Edit the file \~/.android/adb_usb.ini (ignore the "DO NOT EDIT" warnings in this file) and add the BT-200's USB vendor code on a line by itself, so that the file looks something like this:
<pre>
    \# ANDROID 3RD PARTY USB VENDOR ID LIST -- DO NOT EDIT.
    \# USE 'android update adb' TO GENERATE.
    \# 1 USB VENDOR ID PER LINE.
0x04B8
</pre>
On Windows: Install the BT-200 USB driver.

To install a pre-supplied .apk file using adb, from the command line:
<pre>
    ./adb install myfancyapp.apk
</pre>

##Calibration
Camera calibration data for the Epson BT-200 has already been generated by ARToolKit and is present in the online camera calibration database, and is usable by any ARToolKit-based application deployed to the BT-200, provided the device itself has an internet connection. Should you wish to run the Camera Calibration app yourself, ARToolKit is able to supply this as an .apk file on request.

Optical calibration is performed using a version of ARToolKit's calib\_optical utility developed for Android devices. This is available from ARToolworks on request. Further information on optical calibration is available on the page [Using an Optical See-Through Display][config_optical_see-through].

[android_about]: 4_Android:android_about
[config_optical_see-through]: 8_Advanced_Topics:config_optical_see-through
